
$30 Application nonrefundable fee
The Graduate Records Examination (GRE) or Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) verifications are not required for master-level/Ph.D. applicants.


[Master of Sustainable Development Practice (MDP) Graduate Program] https://mdp.africa.ufl.edu/academic-programs/

each Fall semester
priority deadline of February 1st

2. ENTRY REQUIREMENTS Applicants must meet the following requirements for admission into the MDP program: • Have a background and interest in development and conservation issues. This interest can be demonstrated through undergraduate course work, study abroad, work, internships and/or volunteer experience. • A recognized bachelor’s, graduate or professional degree in a related field from a regionally accredited college/university, or an international equivalent based on a four-year curriculum. • 3 letters of recommendation. At least one letter must come from an academic source. • A 3.0 GPA or higher in all upper-division undergraduate coursework. • Satisfactory scores on the Graduate Records Examination (GRE). • Passing scores for the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or IELTS (International English Language Testing System) for non-exempt international students. Students are required to show proof of immunization for measles and rubella, and a tuberculosis skin test, if required, prior to registering for classes at UF. 3. APPLICATION • Complete the Online Application: On your graduate school online application please indicate that you are applying to the Master of Sustainable Development Practice (SDP) program. The application should include a statement of purpose and 3 recommendation letters. You also have the option to upload a copy of your CV or resume, and copies of your transcripts and other documents. Official transcripts must still be sent from all prior academic institutions to the UF Office of Admissions. • Statement of purpose: Your statement of purpose should demonstrate your interest and understanding of sustainable development issues, taking into consideration your personal perspective and background, and highlighting the set of skills and experience you bring, both academic and practice-based. It should provide a thoughtful articulation of the potential field practicum project/research you aspire to carry out, and include your regional, disciplinary and topical interests. The statement of purpose should reflect the commitment and passion you will bring to the MDP Program and to your future career as a development practitioner. • 3 letters of recommendation: At least one letter of recommendation must come from an academic source. If references are unable to submit letters online, they may send hard copies to the MDP office or e-mail them as an attachment. Each letter must be accompanied by a UF Graduate School Recommendation Form. • After submitting the online application, the applicant is instructed to email the program coordinator his/her UFID number and indicate that they have submitted an online application.
